Lockbox is the most popular way to handle the receipt and processing of incoming payments in the United States. This service is offered by all major banks. A company can create n number of such accounts at its bank (or banks), which will work as its payment collection partner for customer payments. The customers, then, send their payments to these bank (lockbox) accounts, along with that they provide remittance information for what open items these customer payments intend to clear. Now once the bank has received all these payments for a day, it creates an electronic data file from the payment advice data and the customer payment amounts, for transmission to the Lockbox owner (company). Once the company receives the file (or fetches it from Bank sFTP), it uploads these file(s) in SAP which in turn automatically clears customer open items and posts accounting entries based on the configuration setup.

This sounds familiar to most of us, right? But before starting the blog post it was necessary to give an overview of what the lockbox functionality is all about. So now as we understand it correctly, let’s deep dive into this functionality. Firstly, the file structure which the bank sends – BAI2 file. Now I am not going to discuss about BAI file, which is a cheaper option than BAI2, but with this file you may not have a suitable 'hit rate' for automatically matching payments to customer open items. Therefore, BAI2 is the recommended one for processing large volume of Lockbox payment transmissions each day. It considers common scenarios such as multiple items are paid per single check and deductions occur commonly etc.